# Data Science Project Self Assessment

## Criterion A: Knowing, understanding, and computational thinking

My project achieves a [6] for this criterion because even though I was not that successful(I would give myself a 5 in this strand) when "interpreting computer programs by tracing through and synthesizing concepts in the code", as the only chance I was given to do so was when I was forced to take away some parts of the third dataset. I was still able to even things out a bit by doing well in the strands of "investigating and evaluating multiple approaches to solving a problem"(give myself a 6), "creating a desired outcome using code by applying relevant computer science concepts and tools in context"(give myself a 7) and "developing computational thinking practices as habits"(Give myself a 6). As I was able to approach the problem by doing things such as disaplying succesful interpritations of graphs, data etc., that were then used to answer the questions I created at the start of the project. I was also able create the outcome by using different code that was taught to us in past lessons to create a successful outcome. Finally, I also developed thinking practices as habits, as I was forced to debug a lot of my code, while also using pseudocode and problem decomposition when planning out how I was gonna approach the way that I would end up coded everything.

## Criterion B: Planning and development

My project achieves a [5] for this criterion because even though I was not successful(I would give myself a 4 in this strand) when "defining the intended functionality of their programs and explains the program’s handling of edge cases", as I didn't seem to really explain what the purpose of my code was in that much detail. However, I was still able to score a bit higher in the strands of "designing a project development plan and prioritizes the development steps"(give myself a 6), "developing documentation of their project in order to create a record of decisions and examines the projects’ assumptions and lingering flaws"(give myself a 5) and "creating personally meaningful projects through an iterative design cycle"(give myself a 5). As I was able to make a plan before starting the code which I believed really helped me keep on track with everything. While also documenatting what I did after each section was finished, explaining what I changed and what the purpose was behind changing it. Finally, I also created a personally meaningful project through an iterative design cycle, as when choosing the different questions that I would have to answer, I planned on brainstorming a few ideas before doing so and figuring out somethings that I felt that bothered me in the school.

## Criterion D: Reflecting on the impacts of technology on society

My project achieves a [5] for this criterion because even though I was not successful(I would give myself a 5 for this strand) when "demonstrating their responsibility for the impacts of their technological creations by critically evaluating the development choices they make", as I didn't really do any interviews or questionnaires on what people thought about their choices in either helping to save energy or not. However, I was still able to even out the score in these strands,"explaining the ways in which technology is applied and used to address a specific human problem or issue" and "discussing and evaluating the implications of using technology and its application to solve a specific human problem or issue, interacting with a factor". As I was able to explain how extra energy consumers such as air conditioners, heater, lights etc., were related or addressed to the specific problem of too much energy being used and more importantly having an unhealthy environment. I was also able to discuss the implications of the problem and figure out a way to spread the word or solve it, this would be by sending out flyers that has results and analysis of different sub-questions.
